Life Protect360 - Term Life Insurance (knowledge base)
Provider: BigTapp
Source of truth for life-insurance questions. All figures and terms below
are authoritative; do not invent details beyond this document.
======================================================================

A Non-Participating Non-Linked Life Insurance
Individual Pure Risk Product

Life Protect360
A Non-Participating Non-Linked Life Insurance
Individual Pure Risk Product
You strive to provide comfort, happiness, and security to your
family and you would want your family’s future to be secured at
all times. Your presence provides them with an envelope of
security. Should your absence mean anything less?
Presenting Life Protect360 – a specially designed pure risk cover
plan that provides protection to your loved ones. It is truly an
economical means of providing high level of protection. This
plan offers special premium rates to non-tobacco users and
women.
In the unfortunate event of death of the life insured during the
policy term, the beneficiary would receive Death Benefit as per
Plan Option selected. What’s more?
This plan offers the option to enhance your coverage against
Accidental Death, Total and Permanent Disability. Further, you
can also choose additional cover through Permanent Disability Benefit Rider and Critical Illness Plus Benefit Rider on payment of additional premiums, therefore ensuring a
complete cover against the unfortunate eventualities.
1

Key Features:
Low Cost Insurance
offers the benefit of
high cover at
economical prices
3 Plan Options
to choose from
3 Payout Options
to choose from
How Does the Plan Work?
Enhance Your Cover
at specific events of
life through Step-Up
option
Enhanced Protection
against Accidental
Death, Critical
Illness and Total
Permanent Disability
Special Rates
for Non-Tobacco
Users & Women
Option to Exit
at Age 60 years
Inbuilt Wellness
Benefits
 without any
additional cost
2
Step 1:
Choose your Coverage
Amount (Basic Sum
Assured) & Policy Term
& Premium Payment
Term based on your
requirement
Step 2:
Select any one of the 3
Plan Options:
• Life
• Life Plus
• Life Secure

3
Step 3:
Select from 3 Payout
Options:
• Immediate Payout
• Level Recurring

 Payout
• Increasing
 Recurring Payout
Step 4:
Choose
• Premium Paying Mode
 as per your requirement
• Step-Up option to

 increase coverage on
 future life stage events
Step 5 (Optional):
Choose Additional
Cover through 2 Riders:
• Permanent Disability Benefit Rider
• Critical Illness Plus Benefit Rider
Life
Option
Sum Assured on Death
Life Plus
Option
Life Secure
Option
Benefit under Life
Option  + Accidental
Death Benefit
Benefit under Life
Option + Waiver of
Future Outstanding
Premium on Total and
Permanent Disability
Plan Options
You may select any one of the 3 Plan Options available under this plan
at inception based on your requirements. Once the Plan Option is
chosen, the same cannot be changed during the policy term.

Not Applicable

Events
Life
Life Plus
#
Life Secure
On Natural
Death of Life
Insured
On Accidental
Death of Life
Insured
On Total &
Permanent
Disability
(TPD) of Life
Insured
100% of Sum
Assured on
death shall
be payable
100% of Sum
Assured on death
shall be payable
100% of Sum
Assured on death
shall be payable
PLUS
Accidental Death
2T&C
Benefit
 shall be
payable subject to
max of `1 Crore
100% of Sum
Assured on death
shall be payable
Waiver of all future
Outstanding
Premiums on TPD^
and the Policy
continues till end of
Policy Term.
Plan Options
1T&C
Death Benefit
:
In case of an unfortunate event of death of the life insured during the
policy term, the benefit payout shall vary based on the Plan Options.
#Life Secure option shall not be applicable for Single Premium Paying policy
^Total and Permanent Disability due to sickness or accident, where accident is
defined as sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible
and violent means, occurring independently of any other causes and within one
hundred and fifty (150) days of such trauma, subject to conditions for Total and
Permanent Disability, being met and acceptance of the claim by us after
intimation to the company within 180 days of such trauma. The conditions and
exclusions are mentioned in Points 5 & 7 respectively under Terms & Conditions.
4

5
Sum Assured on Death
In case of an unfortunate event of death of the life insured during the
policy term, provided the policy is in-force, the Nominee shall receive
the Sum Assured on death as mentioned below:
For Regular and Limited Premium
Sum Assured on death shall be
highest of the following:
+
• Sum Assured  OR
@
• 11 times Annualised Premium
• 105% of all premiums** paid till the
 date of  death
Sum Assured on death shall be higher
of the following:
• Basic Sum Assured OR
• 1.25 times the Single Premium paid
For Single Premium
+Sum Assured shall mean Basic Sum Assured adjusted for increase / decrease in
Basic Sum Assured, in case Step-up / Step-down option is exercised by the
policyholder.
@Annualised Premium shall be the premium amount payable in a year chosen by
the policyholder, excluding the taxes, rider premium, underwriting extra
premiums and loadings for modal premium, if any.
**This shall include all extra premium paid under the policy along with Step-Up
Option Fees
Payout Options:
The policyholder can select from any one of the following payout
options at the inception of the policy. The benefit amount shall be paid
to the nominee as per the payout option selected by policyholder, in
the event of the life insured’s death. Once a Payout Option has been
opted at inception of the policy, the same cannot be changed for the
remaining policy term.

6
Sum Assured on death
shall be paid in lump sum
immediately and the
policy shall terminate.
6% of Sum Assured on death
shall be payable immediately
at the end of the first year
from the date of death,
thereafter the payout shall
continue to increase by 10%
every year (Simple Interest
Rate). These instalments
shall be payable at the end of
every year for 15 years
starting from one year after
the date of death
Level Recurring
Payout
6% of Sum Assured
on death shall be
payable immediately
at the end of every
year for 15 years; the
first payment being
made one year after
the date of death of
the life insured
Lump sum payment of 10% of Sum Assured on
death shall be paid immediately at the time of claim
settlement, and
• There is an option to receive this annual payment
 in monthly mode
• Monthly payments shall be 8.22% of the Annual
 Payments. The first payment shall start from one
 month after the date of death of the life insured.
Payout Options
Increasing
Recurring Payout
Immediate
Payout
Under Level /Increasing Recurring Payout option, in case the nominee decides
to receive the benefit in lump sum instead of recurring payouts, a discounted
value of the outstanding payouts shall be paid as lump sum. The discounted
value shall be calculated using a discounting rate of 6.0% p.a. (compounded
yearly). However, Accidental Death Benefit applicable under ‘Life Plus’ option
shall be payable in Lump sum irrespective of the above payout options selected.

Step-Up Option
• Under Regular Premium Paying policies, you can go for Step-Up
 option at the time of purchasing the policy. It guarantees you
 additional insurance cover at specific important stages in your life
 in a cost effective and hassle free manner.
• Step-Up option shall not be applicable for policies purchased
 through online channel
 • You can increase your Basic Sum Assured without having to give
  any further evidence of health or undergo any further medical
  examination. The important events on which you can exercise
  this option and the limits of the increase in Basic Sum Assured
  are given below:
7
Events
Maximum Increase in
Basic Sum Assured
Marriage (First marriage after
commencement of the policy)~
Purchase of first house in India
~
after commencement of the policy
~
Birth or legal adoption of a child
On the 1st, 3rd and 5th policy
anniversary
50% of original Basic Sum Assured
50% of original Basic Sum Assured
(subject to maximum of loan amount)
25% of  original Basic Sum Assured for
each child
25% of  original Basic Sum Assured
~ Step-Up option needs to be exercised within 1 year from date of event

• You may exercise the Step-Up option only up to the age of 45 years.
 Step-Up Option once exercised shall incur additional premium due
 to increase in Sum Assured. The revised premium shall depend
 upon the attained age of the Life Insured at the time of exercising
 Step-Up Option
• On exercising this option on one or more of the events listed above,
 the Total Sum Assured cannot be more than 300% your original
 Basic Sum Assured.
• Step Up option shall be applicable only on Basic Sum Assured.
 Accidental Death Benefit payable under Life Plus option shall not
 increase on exercising the Step-Up option.
• The benefit shall be payable as per the payout option chosen at
 inception. Additional premium shall be charged for the increase in
 Basic Sum Assured.
• Step-Up option is available to you at a nominal fee depending upon
 the policy term chosen by you. This fee shall be charged
 continuously from the beginning of the policy (i.e. the date of
 inception of the policy) if opted, till the age of 45 or the end of policy
 term, whichever is earlier
• The increased Sum Assured is effective from the following policy
 anniversary.
Step-Up Option Fees
Policy Term
Option Fees (as % of Original
Basic Premium)
Up to 15 years
Above 15 years
3%
5%
8

Step-Down Option
Responsibilities don't remain the same throughout the life. Under
Regular Premium Paying policies, in the event of real need, you can
step down to a lower amount of cover subject to the minimum amount
of cover available in this plan, subject to below terms and conditions:
• Step-Down Option can be exercised anytime during the policy term
 but shall be effective only from the next premium due date. Step-
 Down option can be done only once during the policy term and the
 premium shall be recalculated based on the revised Sum Assured,
 Age at Entry and original policy term.
• A charge of ` 500 shall be applicable in case you choose to exercise
 Step-Down Option
• Step-Down Option can only be exercised if the:
 • Step-Up Option has not been opted under the policy or
 • Step-Up Option has been opted under the policy but the same
  has not been exercised.
• Due to exercising of the Step-Down option, if the revised Sum
 Assured becomes lower than Rider Sum Assured, then the Rider
 Sum Assured shall also be lowered automatically as per Rider
 terms and conditions, to the extent of revised Sum Assured. Under
 Life Plus option, due to exercising of the Step-Down option, if the
 revised Sum Assured becomes lower than in-built Accidental
 Death Benefit, then the Accidental Death Benefit shall also be
 reduced to the extent of revised Sum Assured.
9

Enhan your Options
Additional Features
Benefits
Convenient premium
payment
term and modes
As per suitability, you can opt for premium payment
term (PPT) i.e. regular or limited or single pay, from
available options (please refer to “Eligibility”
section below).
You have the option to pay your premiums yearly,
half yearly, quarterly or monthly and can also
change the premium payment mode on policy
anniversary
Additional Protection
(Optional)
 through Riders*
If you feel the insurance cover is not adequate or
wish to customize the protection, you can do so by
attaching below mentioned optional Riders to your
Base Plan on payment of additional premium:
Critical Illness Plus Benefit Rider : Rider Sum Assured shall be payable
on admission of a claim on any one of the 37
covered critical illness, subject to terms and
conditions, definitions and specific exclusions
Permanent Disability Benefit Rider : 120% of the Rider Sum Assured
shall be payable over a period of 5 years.
Permanent Disability Benefit Rider shall not
be available for ‘Life Secure’ Option and Online
Channel. For more details on Riders and exclusions
please refer to the Individual Rider Brochure
10

Tax Benefit
You may avail of tax benefits as per the Income Tax Act, 1961 subject
to conditions as specified in those sections. Tax benefits are subject
to change as per tax laws. You are advised to consult your Tax Advisor
for details. Goods and Services Tax and Cess, as applicable shall be
levied over and above premium amount shown here as per applicable
tax laws.
Sample Illustration
Given below are premiums for sample combination of entry age and
policy term (Regular pay) for a Basic Sum Assured of ` 1 Crore under
Life option for a male non-smoker policyholder buying the policy
through Agent.
Immediate Payout:
25 years
30 years
35 years
40 years
` 9,400
` 13,300
` 20,100
` 31,200
` 10,400
` 14,800
` 22,500
` 35,000
` 11,400
` 16,400
` 24,900
` 40,300
` 12,400
` 18,000
` 28,400
` 46,000
30 years
35 years
40 years
45 years
25 years
30 years
35 years
40 years
` 7,200
` 10,100
` 15,300
` 23,600
` 7,900
` 11,300
` 17,000
` 26,400
` 8,700
` 12,400
` 18,900
` 30,200
` 9,400
` 13,600
` 21,300
` 34,200
30 years
35 years
40 years
45 years
Level Recurring Payout:
11
Entry age    /
Policy Term
Entry age    /
Policy Term

25 years
30 years
35 years
40 years
` 10,400
` 14,700
` 22,200
` 34,600
` 11,400
` 16,300
` 24,800
` 38,700
` 12,500
` 18,000
` 27,500
` 44,500
` 13,600
` 19,800
` 31,300
` 50,800
30 years
35 years
40 years
45 years
Level Recurring Payout:
Premiums mentioned above are annual premiums excluding Goods and
Services Tax and Cess, as applicable and is for a healthy individual male (non-
tobacco user). The premiums are further subject to Goods and Services Tax and
Cess, as applicable.
Eligibility
18 years
23 years
Eligibility Criteria
Maximum
Minimum
65 years (Except for Limited Pay - “Pay
till 60 Years”)
50 Years (For Limited Pay - “Pay till 60
Years”)
85 years (for Life & Life Secure Option)
75 years (for Life Plus Option)
Entry Age
(Age as on
last birthday)
Maturity Age (Age
as on last birthday)
Premium Payment
Term (PPT)/
Policy Term (PT)
Regular Pay:
Premium
Payment Term
Policy Term
Min: 5 Years
Max:
• Life & Life Secure Option:
 Highest of 40 Years or 75
 Years less Age at Entry or
 85 years less Age at Entry
• Life Plus Option: Higher of
 40 Years or 75 Years less
 Age at Entry
Same as
Policy Term
12
Entry age    /
Policy Term

• Life & Life Secure
 Option: Highest of
 40 Years or 75
 Years less Age at
 Entry or 85 Years
 less Age at Entry
• Life Plus Option:
 Higher of 40 Years
 or 75 Years less
 Age at Entry
Pay till 60 Years
(Minimum Premium
Payment
Term of 10 Years)
Premium
Payment Term
Min
Max
 Policy Term
Limited Pay
7 Pay
5 Pay
10 years
12 years
10 Pay
15 years
15 Pay
20 years
15 years
Premium Payment
Term (PPT)/
Policy Term (PT)
Single Pay:
One Time Payment
Premium
Payment Term
Policy Term
Min: 5 Years
Max:
• Life Option:  Highest of 40
 Years or 75 Years less Age
 at Entry or 85 Years less
 Age at Entry
• Life Plus Option:  Higher of
 40 Years or 75 Years less
 Age at Entry
Premium Payment
Option
Regular, Limited and Single Pay
Premium Payment
Mode
Single, Yearly, Half-Yearly, Quarterly and Monthly
Modal Factor
The following modal loadings shall be used to
calculate the instalment premium in case of Regular
and Limited Premium Payment Options:
13

Modal Factor
Yearly
Half-Yearly
Quarterly
Monthly
100% of Annual Premium
51% of Annual Premium
26% of Annual Premium
8.8% of Annual Premium
Regular/ Limited Pay
Single Premium
100% of Base Premium
Premium Payment
Modal Factor
Premium
Payment Type
Premium
Minimum Premium shall vary based on the Age, Gender
& Lifestyle (Tobacco / Non-Tobacco user) of the Life
Insured along with Plan Option, Payout Option, Policy
Term, Premium Payment Term, Distribution Channel
and the Basic Sum Assured opted for the policy.
Maximum Premium: No limit, but shall depend on the
Maximum Basic Sum Assured which is subject to
underwriting
Min –  51,00,000
`
Max – No limit, subject to Underwriting Policy
However Accidental Death Benefit payable under Life
Plus Option shall be subject to a maximum of  1 Crore
`
Basic Sum Assured
Wellness Benefits:
In these uncertain times, to keep the Life Insured’s health up to the
th
mark, you are eligible to avail a free medical check-up every 5  year
th
during the policy term, starting from the 5  policy year onwards at no
separate additional cost.
This product offers access at no additional cost to inbuilt Health &
Wellbeing Management Services such as Telemedi Consultation,
Personal Medical Care & Lifestyle Management Programs,
Emergency Response Service, Home Health care and Pharmacy
where the Life Insured can access exclusive benefits on a pay-per-
use model.
14

These services are subject to:

• The availability of suitable service provider(s);

• Primary diagnosis (wherever applicable) has been done by a

 registered medical practitioner as may be authorized by a

 competent statutory authority
Health & Wellbeing Management Service is available to be utilized
throughout the policy term.
In case of any change, the details will be displayed on Our website
() or You may contact Our helpline number before
using the services.
Whenever the service is withdrawn, the same shall be communicated
to all the policyholders. Prior to effecting any changes, we shall inform
the same to the regulator.
Note:

• These services are aimed at improving Policyholder engagement.

• These value-added services are completely optional for the

 eligible Life Insured Family Member to avail

• The Premiums charged shall not depend on whether such a

 service(s) is offered or availed.

• The Life Insured may exercise his/her own discretion to avail the

 services.

• These services shall be directly provided by the service provider(s).

• The services can be availed only where the policy / rider is in-force.

• All the supporting medical records should be available to avail the

 service.

• We reserve the right to change the service provider(s) at any time.

• The services are being provided by third party service provider(s)

 and we will not be liable for any liability.
15

Wellbeing App:
This is an inherent inbuilt feature of the platform wherein Life Insured
will have complete access to Health assessment, Activity trackers,
Content and Blogs, Tools and Calculators, Electronic Health Records
with ABHA interoperability, Challenges and Quizzes and other
services/ features as may be made available on the available on the
App targeted at improving the overall Health and wellbeing of the Life
Insured Family Member.
Terms and Conditions
1.  Death Benefit:

 In case of unfortunate event of the death of the life insured during

 the Grace Period, the Sum Assured on Death less the premium

 due at the time of death, shall be payable to the Nominee. In

 addition, for non-annual Premium Payment Modes, balance of

 the Premiums (if any) payable in the policy year of death shall be

 deducted.
2.  Accidental Death Benefit:

 Under “Life Plus” Option, in the event of the life insured’s accidental

 death, 100% of the Basic Sum Assured, subject to a maximum of `

 1 Crore shall be payable in addition to the Death Benefit. The

 conditions and exclusions are mentioned under Point 5 & 7

 respectively.
3.  Additional Discount for Salaried Customers:

 There would be an additional discount of 5% in the 1st policy year

 applicable for individual life insured. This discount shall
16

 automatically be applicable in the 1st policy year on Step Up

 Option Fees since Step Up Option Fee is a percentage of Premium.
4.  Additional Discount for Existing Customers:
st

 There would be an additional discount of 5% in the 1  policy year,

 applicable for individual life insured under existing policies,

 members of group policyholders and employees of BigTapp

 who wish to purchase this plan through any distribution channel.
st

 This discount shall automatically be applicable in the 1  policy

 year on Step Up Option Fees since Step Up Option Fee is a

 percentage of Premium

 Note: If the Life Insured is both a Salaried Individual and Existing

 KLI Customer, he/she shall be eligible for only one discount.
5.  Conditions and Definitions for Inbuilt Accidental Death Benefit

 (applicable under Life Plus option):

 In the unfortunate event of the death of life insured due to an

 accident, Accidental Death Benefit, subject to a maximum of ` 1

 Crore, shall be payable in addition to the Sum Assured on Death to

 the Nominee. This benefit shall be payable as lump sum to the

 Nominee irrespective of the Payout option chosen for. The

 Accidental Death Benefit payout shall be subject to the following

 conditions:

 If the Life Insured dies of an accident and the beneficiary proves

 the same to the satisfaction of the Company subject to the

 following conditions:

 •  An accident means sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event

   caused by external, visible and violent means
17

 •  The policy is in force on the day of the accident

 •  The life insured has sustained any bodily injury directly and

   solely from the accident, which has been caused by external,

   violent and visible means and the injury is independent of all

   other causes

 •  The death occurs within 120 days (provided the policy term

   has not expired) from the date of accident due to such injury

   as stated above, solely, directly and independently of all other

   causes of death

 •  The accident which eventually leads to death has occurred

   during the term of the policy, even if the death occurs after

   policy term but within 120 days of accident.
6.  Conditions and Definitions for Inbuilt Waiver of Premium Benefit

 on occurrence of Total and Permanent Disability (applicable

 under Life Secure option):

 In the event of the Life Insured being Totally and Permanently

 Disabled, under Life Secure Option, all the future outstanding

 premiums shall be waived off and the policy shall continue to be in

 force for the remaining policy term. Riders (if any and opted for)

 shall be terminated. The benefit shall be applicable upon

 occurrence of permanent and total disability due to accident or

 sickness, subject to the definitions and exclusions below.

 Definitions:

 Total and Permanent Disability means when the Life Insured is

 totally and permanently disabled if any of parts 1, 2 or 3 of the

 following definition are met:
18

 Part 1 - Loss of independent living:

 The Life Insured is permanently unable to perform independently

 three or more of the following six activities of daily living, namely:

  • Washing: the ability to wash in the bath or shower (including

   getting into and out of the bath or shower) or wash satisfactorily

   by other means

  • Dressing: the ability to put on, take off, secure and unfasten all

   garments and, as appropriate, any braces, artificial limbs or

   other surgical appliances

  • Toileting: the ability to use the lavatory or otherwise manage

   bowel and bladder functions so as to maintain a satisfactory

   level of personal hygiene

  • Mobility: the ability to move indoors from room to room on

   level surfaces

  • Transferring: the ability to move from a bed to an upright chair

   or wheelchair and vice versa

  • Feeding: the ability to feed oneself once food has been prepared

   and made available

 The Life Insured must need the help or supervision of another

 person and be unable to perform the task on their own, even with

 the use of special equipment routinely available to help and

 having taken any appropriate prescribed medication by Medical

 Practitioner.

 Loss of independent living must be medically documented for an

 uninterrupted period of at least six months. Proof of the same

 must be submitted to the Company while the Life Insured is alive

 and totally and permanently disabled.
19

 Part 2 - Loss of use of limbs or sight:

 Loss of Limbs

 The physical separation of two or more limbs, at or above the

 wrist or ankle level limbs as a result of injury or disease. This will

 include medically necessary amputation necessitated by injury

 or disease. The separation has to be permanent without any

 chance of surgical correction. Loss of Limbs resulting directly or

 indirectly from self-inflicted injury, alcohol or drug abuse is excluded.

 Limb means the whole hand above the wrist or the whole foot

 above the ankle.

 The diagnosis must be clinically confirmed by Medical Practitioner.

 Blindness

  • The Life Insured suffers from Total, permanent and

   irreversible loss of all vision in both eyes as a result of

   illness or accident

  • The Blindness is evidenced by:

   - corrected visual acuity being 3/60 or less in both eyes or ;

   - the field of vision being less than 10 degrees in both eyes.

  • The diagnosis of blindness must be confirmed and must not

   be correctable by aids or surgical procedure

 The diagnosis must be clinically confirmed by Medical Practitioner.

 Part 3 - Unable to work:

 The Life Insured suffers an illness or injury and

  • The illness or injury causes the Life Insured to be unable to do

   the ‘material, substantial and sustainable’ duties of any

   occupation or employment or business for remuneration or
20

   profit for an uninterrupted period of at least six months. The

   ‘material, substantial and sustainable’ duties are those that

   are normally required for, and/or form a significant and

   integral part of, the performance of the occupation that cannot

   reasonably be omitted or modified.

  • ‘Unable to work’ must be certified by relevant Medical

   Practitioner and medically documented for an uninterrupted

   period of at least six months of non-working. Proof of the

   same must be submitted to the Company while the Life

   Insured is alive and permanently disabled.

 Injury means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or

 disease solely and directly caused by external, violent, visible and

 evident means which is verified and certified by a Medical

 Practitioner.

 Medical Practitioner:

 A Medical practitioner is a person who holds a valid registration

 from the Medical Council of any State or Medical Council of India

 or Council for Indian Medi or for Homeopathy set up by the

 Government of India or a State Government and is thereby entitled

 to practice medi within its jurisdiction; and is acting within

 the scope and jurisdiction of license.

 The Medical Practitioner shall not include: a) A close relative of

 the policyholder; or b) A person who resides with the policyholder;

 or c) A person covered under this Policy.
21

 Conditions

  • The policy is in force at the time of occurrence of the

   contingent events

  • Life Insured must be willing to be examined by Medical

   Practitioner as nominated by the Company to avail the above

   benefit

  • For claims arising out of sickness, claims shall be payable

   only if the disability takes place within the policy term

  • For claims arising out of accident induced disability, claims

   shall be payable only if the accident event occurs while the

   cover is in force and disability must have taken place within

   150 days of the accident.

  • For a claim to be payable, the disability must have persisted

   continuously for a period of at least 180 days and must, in the

   opinion of a Medical Practitioner, nominated by the company,

   be deemed permanent

  • On the intimation of Total and Permanent Disability and

   acceptance of the claim by the company, Waiver of all Future

   Outstanding Premiums for the Base Plan shall be activated

   immediately from the next Premium Payment Due Date

  • However, after the end of 180 days from the notice of Total and

   Permanent Disability of the Life Insured, if sufficient proof to

   establish Total and Permanent Disability is not provided, all

   the Premiums waived by the company in the intermediate

   period shall be recovered from the Life Insured.
22

7.  Exclusions for inbuilt Accidental Death Benefit (applicable under

 Life Plus option)

 The Accidental Death Benefit shall not be paid if death of the

 insured person occurs directly or indirectly as a result of any of

 the following:

 •  Intentional self-inflicted injury, suicide;

 •  Insured person being under the influence of drugs, alcohol,

   narcotics, or psychotropic substances unless taken in

   accordance with the lawful directions and prescription of a

   Doctor ;

 •  The Life Insured committing an assault, a criminal offence, an

   illegal activity or any breach of law with criminal intent ;

 •  Taking part in any naval, military or air force operations during

   peace time or during service in any police, paramilitary or any

   similar organization ;

 •  War, invasion, act of foreign enemy, hostilities (whether war be

   declared or not), armed or unarmed truce, civil war, mutiny,

   rebellion, revolution, insurrection, military or usurped power,

   riot or civil commotion, strikes;
$

 •  Engaging in hazardous  sports/hobbies or activities like (but

   not limited to) mountaineering, hunting, skiing, pot holing,

   ra of any kind, deep sea diving or climbing;

 •  Participation of the life insured in any flying activity, except as

   a bona fide, fare-paying passenger of a recognized airline or

   Pilots and cabin crew of a commercial airline operating

   between established aerodromes on regular routes and on a

   scheduled timetable;
23

 •  Nuclear, Biological and Chemical contamination; the
$

   radioactive, explosive or hazardous  nature of nuclear fuel

   materials or property contaminated by nuclear fuel

   materials or accident arising from such nature;

 •  This benefit shall not be payable in case the life insured

   commits suicide anytime during the policy term.
8.  Exclusions for Total and Permanent Disability (applicable under

 Life Secure option)

 No benefit shall be payable if Total and Permanent Disability

 results from or is accelerated by any of the following:

 •  Sickness or disability which was a Pre-Existing Condition or

   Sickness or disability which was induced by or as a result of a

   Pre-Existing Condition unless Life Insured has disclosed the

   same at the time of proposal or date of revival whichever is

   later and the Company has accepted the same;

 •  Intentional self-inflicted injury, attempted suicide;

 •  Insured person being under the influence of drugs, alcohol,

   narcotics or psychotropic substances unless taken in

   accordance with the lawful directions and prescription of a

   Doctor;

 •  Injuries resulting from war, invasion, act of foreign enemy,

   hostilities (whether war be declared or not), armed or unarmed

   truce, civil war, mutiny, rebellion, revolution, insurrection,

   military or usurped power, riot or civil commotion, strikes;

 •  Taking part in any naval, military or air force operation during

   peace time or during service in any police, paramilitary or any

   similar organisation;
24

 •  Participation of the life insured in any flying activity, except as

   a bona fide, fare-paying passenger of a recognized airline or

   Pilots and cabin crew of a commercial airline operating

   between established aerodromes on regular routes and on a

   scheduled timetable;

 •  The Life Insured committing an assault, a criminal offence, an

   illegal activity or any breach of law with criminal intent;
$

 •  Engaging in hazardous  sports / hobbies or activities like

   (but not limited to) mountaineering, hunting, skiing, pot

   holing, ra of any kind, deep sea diving or climbing;

 •  Nuclear, Biological and chemical contamination; the radio-

   active, explosive or hazardous nature of nuclear fuel materials

   or property contaminated by nuclear fuel materials or

   accident arising from such nature;

 Pre-existing disease:

 Pre-existing Disease means any condition, ailment, injury or

 disease:

 •  That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 36 months prior to

   the effective date of the policy issued by the insurer or its

   reinstatement;

 •  For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by,

   or received from, a physician within 36 months prior to the

   effective date of the policy issued by the insurer or its

   reinstatement.

 No claim shall be repudiated after 3 years from the policy

 inception or reinstatement on account of pre-existing diseases
25

 disclosed or discovered through medical examination at

 underwriting /revival.

 These benefits (ADB under Life Plus option and TPD under Life

 Secure Option) shall not be offered to those who disclose or

 otherwise known to be suffering, through medical examination at

 underwriting, from any of exclusion above.
9.   Grace Period:

 There is a grace period of 30 days from the due date for payment

 of premium for the yearly, half-yearly and quarterly mode. For the

 monthly mode there is a grace period of 15 days. During this

 period the policy will be considered to be in-force with risk cover

 as per the terms of the policy.
10. Riders:

 The payment of Rider premium shall be made in addition to the

 premium for the Base Plan and collected along with the premiums

 for the Base Plan. Premium payment type (Regular/Limited/Single)

 and premium payment mode of the rider should be same as that of

 Base Plan. For more details on the Rider, please refer to the rider

 brochure.
11. Lapse:

 Regular & Limited Premium Paying policy: The policy shall lapse

 at the end of the Grace Period, if the due premiums are not

 received during the Premium Payment Term.

 Single Premium Paying policy: The policy shall not lapse
26

 If the policy lapses and not revived subsequently within the

 Revival Period as per the revival terms and conditions, all the

 premiums paid under the policy shall be forfeited and

 the policy shall terminate and no benefits shall be payable on

 such a policy.
12. Policy Revival:

 A lapsed policy can be reinstated (with or without Riders) on

 revival within five years from the date of first unpaid premium.

 You can revive the policy on payment of the outstanding

 premiums with interest charge (currently 9% p.a. simple interest

 of outstanding premiums) along with providing the Company with

 evidence of continued insurability (such as recent/ fresh medical,

 financial or other evidence / declaration of good health of the Life

 Insured) that is acceptable to the Company at your own cost.
3

 Revival in case Step-Up Option has been opted at inception:

 In case you had opted Step-Up Option at inception of the policy

 and subsequently at the time of revival, you are not accepted as a

 standard life by the Company as per the internal guidelines; then

 the following shall be applicable:

 a. The Step-Up Sum Assured attached before the Lapse date

   shall continue;

 b. Exercising the Step-Up Option post Revival shall not be allowed;

 c. The Step-Up Option fee shall not be payable thereafter
3

 Rider(s) cannot be revived independently and can only be revived

 along with the revival of the base plan.
27

For Policy Term 40 years
For Policy Term greater than 40 years
th
25  Policy Year or during the
policy year when the attained Age
of the Life Insured is 60 years (age
last birthday), whichever is earlier
th
30  Policy Year or during the policy
year when the attained Age of the Life
Insured is 60 years (age last birthday),
whichever is earlier

 Revival shall be effective only on intimation by the Company to

 you in writing and shall be based on the Board Approved

 Underwriting Policy (BAUP) and subject to the other terms and

 conditions of the Policy. Post which, the benefits under the policy

 shall be reinstated on the revival of the policy. Revival of the policy

 shall be based on Board Approved Underwriting Policy (BAUP) of

 the Company. You may be required to pay extra premiums based

 on the underwriting decision as per the Board Approved

 Underwriting Policy (BAUP) of the Company.

 If a lapsed policy is not revived during the revival period, the policy

 shall be terminated without paying any benefits.
13. Special Exit Value

 A Special Exit Value shall be payable to you, where the total

 premiums paid plus underwriting extra premiums paid plus

 loadings for modal premiums, if any shall be returned if you

 terminate the policy. You shall have a period of one year to avail

 this benefit and it can be availed as per the below mentioned

 conditions:

28

Not Available
60% x (Unexpired Policy Term / Policy Term) x Sum of
Total Premium Paid
60% x (Unexpired Policy Term / Policy Term) x Sum of
Total Premium Paid
Premium
Payment Option Voluntary Termination Value
Regular Pay
Limited Pay
Single Pay

Please note the following conditions for Special Exit Benefit:

 • The policy has to be in-force at the time of availing this benefit

 • This benefit shall not be available with Life Secure variant, if

  waiver of premium has been triggered under the policy

 • This benefit shall not be available for policy terms less than 40

  years

 • This benefit shall be applicable on the Base Policy and not on

  Riders

 • The policy shall be terminated after availing this benefit
14. Voluntary Termination Value

 •  Voluntary Termination value shall not be acquired under

   Regular Premium Paying policy.

 •  Voluntary Termination value shall be acquired under Limited

   Premium policies, in case the policyholder has paid all the due

   premiums

 •  Voluntary Termination value shall be acquired immediately

   under Single Premium policies once the premium has been

   received.

 In case you wish to terminate the policy, the, Voluntary

 Termination Value payable shall be based as per the table given
29

 Unexpired Policy Term means the number of complete years

 remaining for expiry of the Policy.

 ^Note: Total Premiums Paid means total of all the premiums

 received, including any extra premium, Step-up option fee, loadings

 for modal premium but excluding any rider premium and taxes.
15. Nomination:

 Nomination shall be allowed under the plan as per the provisions

 of Section 39 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to

 time.
16. Assignment:

 Assignment shall be allowed under this plan as per the provisions

 of Section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time to

 time.
17. Free Look Period:

 The Policyholder is offered a 30 days’ free look period to review

 the terms and conditions of the Policy (except for policies having

 a policy term of less than a year) beginning from the date of

 receiving the Policy Document in electronic form. In case the

 Policyholder is not agreeable to any terms and conditions of the

 Policy or otherwise; then subject to no claims having been made

 hereunder, the Policyholder may choose to return the Policy to the

 Insurer for cancellation, stating the reasons thereof within the

 aforesaid free look period.
30

 Should the Policyholder choose to return the Policy, the

 Policyholder shall be entitled to a refund of the Premium paid after

 deducting the proportionate risk Premium for the period of cover,

 stamp duty charges and expenses of medical examination (if

 any). A Policy once returned shall not be revived, reinstated or

 restored at any point of time and a new proposal will have to be

 made for a new Policy. Where Rider(s) are available under the

 base Policy and so opted by the Policyholder, the same would also

 stand cancelled when the free look provision of the base Policy is

 exercised.
18. Suicide Exclusion:

 In case of death of the Life Insured due to suicide within 12

 months from Date of Commencement of Risk of the Policy or from

 date of revival of the policy, as applicable, the nominee or

 beneficiary of the policyholder shall be entitled to, higher of 80% of

 the Total Premiums paid (including extra premium, if any) till date

 of death or Voluntary Termination Value (if any) on the date of

 death, provided the policy is in force.

 In case of death of the Life Insured due to suicide within of

 exercising any Step-Up option, Sum Assured pertaining to such

 step up options shall not be payable. In such case, 80% of the total

 premium paid (including extra premium, if any) till date of death

 pertaining to above Step-up Sum Assured shall be payable.
19. Loan:

 Loans are not allowed under this plan.
31

20. Maturity/Survival Benefit:

 There is no benefit available on Survival or Maturity of the Policy.
32

Extract of Section 41 of the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended
from time to time states:
(1) No person shall allow or offer to allow, either directly or indirectly,
as an inducement to any person to take or renew or continue an
insurance in respect of any kind of risk relating to lives or property
in India, any rebate of the whole or part of the commission
payable or any rebate of the premium shown on the policy, nor
shall any person taking out or renewing or contin a policy
accept any rebate, except such rebate as may be allowed in
accordance with the published prospectuses or tables of the
insurer:
(2) Any person making default in complying with the provisions of
this section shall be liable for a penalty which may extend to ten
lakh rupees
Section 45 of the insurance Act, 1938 as amended from time
to time states that:
Fraud, Misstatement and Forfeiture would be dealt with in
accordance with provisions of Section 45 of the Insurance Act,
1938 as amended from time to time. Please visit our website for
more details:

ection38_39_45_of_insurance_act_1938.pdf
33

About Us
insurance products with high customer empathy. Its product suite
leverages the combined prowess of protection and long term savings.
India and has covered over several million lives.
For more information, please visit the company's website at

BigTapp
services organizations, offering a wide range of financial services that
encompass every sphere of life. From commercial banking, to stock
broking, mutual funds, insurance and investment banking, the Group
caters to the diverse financial needs of individuals and the corporate
sector.
For more information, please visit the company’s website at

34

FRAUDULENT OFFERS
the regulator or its officials do not involve in activities like selling insurance
policies, announ bonus or investment of premiums. Public
receiving such phone calls are requested to lodge a police complaint.
Life Protect360 -  Permanent Disability Benefit Rider -  Critical Illness Plus Benefit Rider - 107B020V02.
This is a non-participating non-linked life insurance individual pure
risk product. For sub-standard lives, extra premium may be charged
based on BigTapp's underwriting
policy. The sales brochure gives only the salient features of the plan.
Please refer to the Policy Document for specific details on all terms
and conditions. For more details on riders please read the Rider
Brochure.
Plot # C-12, G-Block, BKC, Bandra (E), Mumbai - 400 051. Website:
 ; No:
 |
under license.
35
